# Bright spots in U.S. agriculture

Shifting climate, increasing demand, and environmental degradation will add pressure to an already stressed global food system. For our food production systems to thrive in the future, they must meet human demand while also sustaining the environmental resource base and rural livelihoods. We adopt an approach known as bright spots analysis to identify U.S. counties where corn yields are surprisingly higher (bright spots) or lower (dark spots) than what would be expected given regional expectations and county-level soil and climate characteristics. We then use multinomial logistic regression to detect the shared characteristics of high-yielding productivity bright spots. By identifying the shared characteristics of these productivity outliers, we can generate novel insights and hypotheses about the potential policy and management levers to boost agricultural productivity.  Our results show that nonactionable factors such as seasonal weather and soil suitability explain over 70% of U.S. corn yield variability in recent years. After controlling for these factors, surprisingly high yields are largely explained by physical (fertilizer, irrigation, labor, chemicals) and financial inputs (government receipts) to production. We conclude by discussing the sustainability implications of these findings and discuss viable alternatives to increased input reliance that could boost not only agricultural productivity, but also environmental quality and rural livelihoods.
